PS-8791 8.0.33-26 Document data masking component (8.0) (#148)
percona/psmysql-docs: docs/data-masking-function-list.md

    +-------------------------------------------------------+
    | mask_uuid('9a3b642c-06c6-11ee-be56-0242ac120002')     |
    +-------------------------------------------------------+
    |********_****_****_****_************                   |
    +-------------------------------------------------------+
    ```

## masking_dictionary_remove(dictionary_name)

Removes all of the terms and the dictionary. 

Requires the `MASKING_DICTIONARIES_ADMIN` privilege.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| dictionary_name | No | The dictionary to be removed | String |

### Returns

Returns a string value of `1` (one) if the operation is successful or `NULL` if the operation could not find the `dictionary_name`.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT masking_dictionary_remove('trees');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------------+
    | masking_dictionary_remove('trees')       |
    +------------------------------------------+
    |                                        1 |
    +------------------------------------------+
    ```

> ## masking_dictionary_term_add(dictionary_name, term_name)

Reviewer: Hi Patrick! We need to add the following note for masking_dictionary_term_add:
'Note that masking_dictionary_term_add uses INSERT IGNORE to add data to mysql.masking_dictionaries table. Some of the points to consider as a result: 
1) if inserted data is greater than mysql.masking_dictionaries.Dictionary or mysql.masking_dictionaries.Term maximum length, the inserted data is truncated without warnings. 
2) Characters not supported by mysql.masking_dictionaries.Dictionary and/or mysql.masking_dictionaries.Term character sets are treated as '?'.
Feel free to change wording :)

Reviewer 2: `data is greater ` -> `data is longer`

    ```

## masking_dictionary_remove(dictionary_name)

Removes all of the terms and the dictionary. 

Requires the `MASKING_DICTIONARIES_ADMIN` privilege.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| dictionary_name | No | The dictionary to be removed | String |

### Returns

Returns a string value of `1` (one) if the operation is successful or `NULL` if the operation could not find the `dictionary_name`.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT masking_dictionary_remove('trees');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------------+
    | masking_dictionary_remove('trees')       |
    +------------------------------------------+
    |                                        1 |
    +------------------------------------------+
    ```

## masking_dictionary_term_add(dictionary_name, term_name)

Adds the selected term to the dictionary. 

Requires the `MASKING_DICTIONARIES_ADMIN` privilege.

!!! note

    The operation that adds the term to the dicitionary uses `INSERT IGNORE`. The `IGNORE` modifier has the following consequences:

>     * The inserted term is truncated without warnings if the term is longer than the mysql.masking_dictionaries.Dictionary or mysql.masking_dictionaries.Term maximum length.

Reviewer: I would change "inserted term" to smth else because it can be confusing: this can be misread as if mysql.masking_dictionaries.Term will be truncated if mysql.masking_dictionaries.Dictionary >  maximum length of mysql.masking_dictionaries.Dictionary which is not the case. The Dictionary value is truncated if mysql.masking_dictionaries.Dictionary len > maximum length of mysql.masking_dictionaries.Dictionary, The Term is truncated if mysql.masking_dictionaries.Term len > maximum length of  mysql.masking_dictionaries.Term.

| [`gen_rnd_uk_nin()`](#gen_rnd_uk_nin)                                  | Generates a United Kingdom National Insurance number  |
| [`gen_rnd_us_phone()`](#gen_rnd_us_phone)                                | Generates a US phone number                           |
| [`gen_rnd_uuid()`](#gen_rnd_uuid)                                    | Generates a Universally Unique Identifier             |
| [`mask_canada_sin(str [,mask_char])`](#mask_canada_sinstr-mask_char)                                 | Masks the Canadian Social Insurance number            |
| [`mask_iban(str [,mask_char])`](#mask_ibanstr-mask_char)                                      | Masks the International Bank Account number           |
| [`mask_inner(str, margin1, margin2 [,mask_char])`](#mask_innerstr-margin1-margin2-mask_char)   | Masks the inner part of a string                      |
| [`mask_outer(str, margin1, margin2 [,mask_char])`](#mask_outerstr-margin1-margin2-mask_char)  | Masks the outer part of the string                    |
| [`mask_pan(str [,mask_char])`](#mask_panstr-mask_char)     | Masks the Primary Account number for a payment card   |

> | [`mask_pan_relaxed(str [,mask_char])`](#mask_pan_relaxedstr-mask_char)   | Masks the Primary Account number for a payment card   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`mask_pan_relaxed(str [,mask_char])`](#mask_pan_relaxedstr-mask_char)   | Partially masks the Primary Account number for a payment card   |
```

| [`masking_dictionary_term_add(dictionary_name, term_name)`](#masking_dictionary_term_adddictionary_name-term_name)     | Adds a term to the masking dictionary                 |
| [`masking_dictionary_term_remove(dictionary_name, term_name)`](#masking_dictionary_term_removedictionary_name-term_name)      | Removes a term from the masking dictionary            |

## gen_blocklist(str, from_dictionary_name, to_dictionary_name)

Replaces one term in a dictionary with a term, selected at random, in another dictionary.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| term | No | The term to replace | String |
| from_dictionary_name | No | The dictionary that stores the term. | String |
| to_dictionary_name | No | The dictionary that stores the replacement term | String |

### Returns

A term, selected at random, from the dictionary listed in `to_dictionary_name` that replaces the selected term. If the selected `term` is not listed in the `from_dictionary_name` or a dictionary is missing, then the `term` is returned. If the `to_dictionary_name` does not exist, then returns NULL.

> 

Reviewer 2: The character set of the returned string is the same as the character set of the `term` parameter.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_blocklist('apple', 'fruit', 'nut');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-----------------------------------------+
    | gen_blocklist('apple', 'fruit', 'nut')  |
    +-----------------------------------------+
    | walnut                                  |
    +-----------------------------------------+
    ```

## gen_dictionary(dictionary_name)

Returns a term from a dictionary selected at random.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| dictionary_name | No | Select the random term from this dictionary | String |

### Returns

> A random term from the dictionary listed in `dictionary_name`.

Reviewer 2: ... in `utf8mb4` character set

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_dictionary('trees');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +--------------------------------------------------+
    | gen_dictionary('trees')                          |
    +--------------------------------------------------+
    | Norway spruce                                    |
    +--------------------------------------------------+
    ```

## gen_range(lower, upper)

Returns a number from a defined range.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| lower | No | The lower boundary of the range | Integer |
| upper | No | The upper boundary of the range | Integer |

> The `upper` parameter must be an integer higher than the `lower` parameter.

Reviewer 2: higher or equal

## Returns

> An integer, selected at random, from an inclusive range defined by the `lower` parameter and the `upper` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ... NULL if upper is smaller than lower

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_range(10, 100);
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +--------------------------------------+
    | gen_range(10,100)                    |
    +--------------------------------------+
    | 56                                   |
    +--------------------------------------+
    ```

## gen-rnd-canada-sin()

Generates a Canada Social Insurance Number (SIN).

!!! important

    Generating the SIN should only be used for testing. The function does not check if the generated value is a legitimate primary account number. If you must publish the result, consider using [`mask_canada_sin`](#mask_canada_sinstr-mask_char) to mix up the result.

### Parameters

None.

### Returns

> Returns a Canada SIN. The format is `AAA-BBB-CCC`. 

Reviewer 2: ... in utf8mb4 character set

The number is verified with the [Luhn Number Checksum]](https://www.dcode.fr/luhn-algorithm) to ensure the number is consistent.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_canada_sin();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-------------------------+
    | gen_rnd_canada_sin()    |
    +-------------------------+
    | 506-948-819             |
    +-------------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_email(name_size, surname_size, domain)

Generates a random email address. The format of the email is `name.surname@domain`. 

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| name_size | Yes | Specifies the number of characters in the name part. The default is five. | Integer |
| surname_size | Yes | Specifies the number of characters in the surname part. The default number is seven. | Integer |
| domain | Yes | Specifies the domain part. The default value is `example.com`. | Integer |

### Returns

> An email address as a string.

Reviewer 2: ... in the same character set as `domain`. If `domain` is not specified, then in utf8mb4

Reviewer 2: Both name and surname parts will include only random lower case letters (a-z)

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_email(name_size=7, surname_size=5, domain=`mydomain.edu`);
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +----------------------------------+

>     | gen_rnd_email(4, 5, `mynet.com`) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    | gen_rnd_email(4, 5, `mydomain.edu`) |
```

    +----------------------------------+

>     | T15X.TX8x1@mynet.com             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    | qwer.asdfg@mydomain.edu          |
```

    +----------------------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_iban([country, size])

> Generates an Internal Bank Account Number (IBAN). The function returns the value starting with the Country Code and 16 digits in a `CCAAAABBBBCCCCDDDD` format. 

Reviewer 2: 16 digits -> `size` digits
format should probably become a regular expression `<country>[[:digit:]]{<size>}`

!!! important

    Generating the IBAN with a valid country code should only be used for testing. The function does not check if the generated value is a legitimate bank account. If you must publish the result, consider using [`mask_iban`](#mask_ibanstr-mask_char) to mix up the result.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| country | Yes | A two-character country code | String |
| size | Yes | Number of characters | Integer |

If the `country` is not specified, the default is `ZZ`.

> 

Reviewer 2: `country` must be exactly two upper-case characters (A-Z). Otherwise an error is returned.

The default length for `size` is 16. The minimum value is 15. The maximum value is 34.

### Returns

> An IBAN string, with the number in an `CCAAAABBBBCCCCDDDD` format.

Reviewer 2: in the `<country>[[:digit:]]{<size>}` format
The character set of the result is the same as the character set of the `country` parameter. If `country` is not specified, then `utf8mb4`

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_iban();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-------------------+
    | gen_rnd_iban()    |
    +-------------------+
    |ZZ7895912007853695 |
    +-------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_pan()

Generates an Primary Account Number (PAN) for a payment card.

!!! important

    Generating the PAN should only be used for testing. The function does not check if the generated value is a legitimate primary account number. If you must publish the result, consider using [`mask_pan`](#mask_panstr-mask_char) or [`mask_pan_relaxed()`](#mask_pan_relaxedstr-mask_char) to mix up the result.

### Parameters

None

### Returns

> A random PAN string.

Reviewer 2: ... in utf8mb4 character set

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_pan();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-------------------+
    | gen_rnd_pan()     |
    +-------------------+

>     | DAJPC4150PHYTYB3  |

Reviewer 2: This is not a valid credit card number

    +-------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_ssn()

Generates a United States Social Security Account Number (SSN).

### Parameters

None

### Returns

> A SSN string in a `***-**-****` format. The first three numbers are greater than 900, which are outside the range for legitimate numbers.

Reviewer 2: A SSN string in a `***-**-****` format in utf8mb4 character set

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_ssn();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +----------------+
    | gen_rnd_ssn()  |
    +----------------+
    | 970-03-0370    |
    -----------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_uk_nin()

Generates a United Kingdom National Insurance Number (NIN).

!!! important

    Generating the NIN should only be used for testing. The function does not check if the generated value is a legitimate primary account number. If you must publish the result, consider using [`mask_uk_nin`](#mask_uk_ninstr-mask_char) to mix up the result.

### Parameters

None.

### Returns

> A NIN string.

Reviewer 2: ... in utf8mb4 character set

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_uk_nin();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +----------------------+
    | gen_rnd_uk_nin()     |
    +----------------------+

>     | BK189806             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    | AA123456C            |
```

    +----------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_us_phone()

Generates a United States phone number with the `555` area code.

### Parameters

None

### Returns

> Returns a United States phone number.

Reviewer 2: ... in utf8mb4 character set

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_us_phone();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +--------------------+
    | gen_rnd_us_phone() |
    +--------------------+
    | 1-555-249-2029     |
    +--------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_uuid()

> Generates a Universally Unique Identifier (UUID).

Reviewer 2: Generates a version 4 Universally Unique Identifier (UUID).

### Parameters

None.

### Returns

> Returns a UUID as a string.

Reviewer 2: ... in utf8mb4 character set

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_uuid();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------+
    | gen_rnd_uuid()                     |
    +------------------------------------+
    |9a3b642c-06c6-11ee-be56-0242ac120002|
    +------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_canada_sin(str [,mask_char])

Masks a Canada Social Insurance Number (SIN).

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` accepts an alphanumeric string.

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is `X`.

> 

Reviewer 2: `mask_char` can be a multibyte character in any character set (not necessarily identical to the character set of `str`)

### Returns

A string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that option's default value.

Returns an error if the length of `str` is not correct.

> Returns a NULL value if the `str` is in an incorrect length. If the `str` contains a multi-byte character, the `str` is not masked.

Reviewer 2: The function supports multibyte characters in any character set
```suggestion
Returns a NULL value if the `str` is in an incorrect length.
```

Reviewer 2: The character set of the result is the same as `str`

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_canada_sin('555-555-555');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +--------------------------------+
    | mask_canada_sin('555-555-555') |
    +--------------------------------+
    | XXX-XXX-XXX                    |
    +--------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_iban(str [,mask_char])

Masks an Internal Bank Account Number (IBAN).

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | Character used for masking | String |

The `str` accepts either of the following:

* No separator symbol
* Groups of four characters. These groups can be separated by a space or any separator character.

> A `str` 

Reviewer 2: ??? (unfinished statement)

The default value for `mask_char` is `*`.

> 

Reviewer 2: mask_char can be a multibyte character in any character set (not necessarily identical to the character set of str)

### Returns

Returns the masked string.

Returns an error if `str` length is incorrect.

> If the `str` contains a multi-byte character, the `str` is not masked.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
The character set of the result is the same as the character set of `str`

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_iban('DE27 1002 02003 77495 4156');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +---------------------------------------------+
    | mask_iban('DE27 1002 02003 77495 4156')     |
    +---------------------------------------------+

>     |DE** **** **** **** ****                     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    | DE** **** **** **** ****                    |
```

    +---------------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_inner(str, margin1, margin2 [,mask_char])

Returns the string where a selected inner portion is masked with a substitute character.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| string | No | The string to be masked | String |
| margin1 | No | The number of characters on the left end of the string to remain unmasked | Integer |
| margin2 | No | The number of characters on the right end of the string to remain unmasked | Integer |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

If the `margin1` cannot be a negative number. If the marin1 value is 0, then all of the left end characters are unmasked.

If the `margin2` cannot be a negative number. If the marin1 value is 0, then all of the right end characters are unmasked.

> If the sum of `margin1` and `margin2` is greater than the string length, no masking occurs.

Reviewer 2: greater or equal

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is 'X'.

> 

Reviewer 2: mask_char can be a multibyte character in any character set (not necessarily identical to the character set of str)

### Returns

> A string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value.

Reviewer 2: ... in the character set of the `string` parameter

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_inner('123456789', 1, 2);
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-----------------------------------+
    | mask_inner('123456789', 1, 2)     |
    +-----------------------------------+

>     |1XXXXXX89                          |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    | 1XXXXXX89                         |
```

    +-----------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_outer(str, margin1, margin2 [,mask_char])

Returns the string where a selected outer portion is masked with a substitute character.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| string | No | The string to be masked | String |
| margin1 | No | The number of characters on the left end of the string to remain unmasked | Integer |
| margin2 | No | The number of characters on the right end of the string to remain unmasked | Integer |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

If the `margin1` cannot be a negative number. If the marin1 value is 0, then all of the left end characters are unmasked.

If the `margin2` cannot be a negative number. If the marin1 value is 0, then all of the right end characters are unmasked.

> If the sum of `margin1` and `margin2` is greater than the string length, no masking occurs.

Reviewer 2: ... greater or equal ...
`no masking occurs` -> `the whole string is masked`

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is 'X'.

> 

Reviewer 2: mask_char can be a multibyte character in any character set (not necessarily identical to the character set of str)

### Returns

> A string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value.

Reviewer 2: ... in the same character set as the character set of `string`

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_outer('123456789', 2, 2); 
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------+
    | mask_outer('123456789', 2, 2).     |
    +------------------------------------+
    | XX34567XX                          |
    +------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_pan(str [,mask_char])

Returns a masked payment card Primary Account Number (PAN). The mask replaces the PAN number with the specified character except for the last four digits.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` contains a minimum of 14 or a maximum of 19 alphanumeric characters. 

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is 'X'.

> 

Reviewer 2: mask_char can be a multibyte character in any character set (not necessarily identical to the character set of str)

### Returns

A string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value. 

> An error occurs if the `str` parameter is not the correct length. A multi-byte character `str` is not masked.

Reviewer 2: multibyte characters are supported

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_pan (gen_rnd_pan());
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------+
    | mask_pan(gen_rnd_pan())            |
    +------------------------------------+
    | XXXXXXXXXXX2345                    |
    +------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_pan_relaxed(str [,mask_char])

> Returns a masked payment card Primary Account Number (PAN). The first six numbers and the last four numbers and the rest of the string masked by specified character or `X`.

Reviewer 2: Incorrect.
As in the example, only the last 4 digits are remain unchanges.

Reviewer 2: The character set of the result is the same as the character set of `str`

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` must contain a minimum of 14 or a maximum of 19 alphanumeric characters. 

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is 'X'.

> 

Reviewer 2: mask_char can be a multibyte character in any character set (not necessarily identical to the character set of str)

### Returns

> A string with the first six numbers and the last four numbers and the rest of the string masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value (`X`). 

Reviewer 2: ... in the character set the same as the character set of `str`

> An error occurs if the `str` parameter is not the correct length. A multi-byte character `str` is not masked.

Reviewer 2: multibyte characters are supported

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_pan_relaxed(gen_rnd_pan());
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------------+
    | mask_pan_relaxed(gen_rnd_pan())          |
    +------------------------------------------+
    | 520754XXXXXX4848                         |
    +------------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_ssn(str [,mask_char])

Returns a masked United States Social Security Number(SSN). The mask replaces the SSN number with the specified character except for the last four digits.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` accepts either of the following:

* Nine integers, no separator symbol
* Nine integers in the `***-**-****` pattern. The `-` is a separator character.

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is `*`.

> 

Reviewer 2: mask_char can be a multibyte character in any character set (not necessarily identical to the character set of str)

### Returns

> A string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value. Returns a NULL value if the `str` is in an incorrect length. A multi-byte character `str` is not masked.

Reviewer 2: multibyte characters are supported

Reviewer 2: ... in the character set the same as the character set of str

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_ssn('555-55-5555');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-------------------------+
    | mask_ssn('555-55-5555') |
    +-------------------------+
    | ***-**-5555             |
    +-------------------------+
    ```

## mask_uk_nin(str [,mask_char])

Returns a masked a United Kingdom National Insurance Number (NIN). The mask replaces the NIN number with the specified character except for the first two digits.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` accepts an alpha-numeric string and does not check format.

The `str` can use any separator character.

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is `*`.

> 

Reviewer 2: mask_char can be a multibyte character in any character set (not necessarily identical to the character set of str)

### Returns

Returns a string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value. 

An error occurs if the `str` parameter is not the correct length. 

> Returns a NULL value if the `str` is in an incorrect format. A multi-byte character `str` is not masked.

Reviewer 2: multibyte characters are supported

Reviewer 2: ... in the character set the same as the character set of str

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_uk_nin ('CT 26 46 83 D');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------+
    | mask_uk_nin('CT 26 46 83 D')       |
    +------------------------------------+
    | CT ** ** ** *                      |
    +------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_uuid(str [,mask_char])

Masks a Universally Unique Identifier (UUID).

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` format is `********-****-****-****-************`.

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is '*'.

> 

Reviewer 2: mask_char can be a multibyte character in any character set (not necessarily identical to the character set of str)

### Returns

> A string with the characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value.

Reviewer 2: ... in the character set the same as the character set of str

Returns an error if the length of `str` is incorrect.

> Returns `NULL` if `str`  is an incorrect length. A multi-byte character `str` is not masked.

Reviewer 2: multibyte characters are supported

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_uuid('9a3b642c-06c6-11ee-be56-0242ac120002');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-------------------------------------------------------+
    | mask_uuid('9a3b642c-06c6-11ee-be56-0242ac120002')     |
    +-------------------------------------------------------+
    |********_****_****_****_************                   |
    +-------------------------------------------------------+
    ```

## masking_dictionary_remove(dictionary_name)

Removes all of the terms and the dictionary. 

Requires the `MASKING_DICTIONARIES_ADMIN` privilege.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| dictionary_name | No | The dictionary to be removed | String |

### Returns

> Returns `1` if the operation was successful or `NULL` if the operation could not find the `dictionary_name`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns string value `1` if the operation was successful or `NULL` if the operation could not find the `dictionary_name`.
```

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT masking_dictionary_remove('trees');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------------+
    | masking_dictionary_remove('trees')       |
    +------------------------------------------+
    |                                        1 |
    +------------------------------------------+
    ```

## masking_dictionary_term_add(dictionary_name, term_name)

Adds the selected term to the dictionary. 

Requires the `MASKING_DICTIONARIES_ADMIN` privilege.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| dictionary_name | No | The dictionary for the term | String |
| term_name | No | The term to be added | String |

### Returns

> Returns `1` if the operation was successful. If the dictionary_name does not exist, the operation creates the dictionary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns string value `1` if the operation was successful. If the dictionary_name does not exist, the operation creates the dictionary.
```

> Returns `NULL` if the operation fails. An operation can fail if the `term_name` is already available in the dictionary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns `NULL` if the operation fails. An operation can fail if the `term_name` is already available in the dictionary `dictionary_name`
```

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT masking_dictionary_term_add('trees','pine');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-----------------------------------------------+
    | masking_dictionary_term_add('trees', 'pine')  |
    +-----------------------------------------------+
    |                                             1 |
    +-----------------------------------------------+
    ```

## masking_dictionary_term_remove(dictionary_name, term_name)

Removes the selected term from the dictionary. 

Requires the `MASKING_DICTIONARIES_ADMIN` privilege.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| dictionary_name | No | The dictionary that contains the `term_name` | String |
| term_name | No | The term to be removed | String |

### Returns

> Returns `1` if the operation was successful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns string value `1` if the operation was successful.
```

Returns `NULL` if the operation fails. An operation can fail if the following occurs:

> * The `term_name` is not available in the dictionary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `term_name` is not available in the dictionary `dictionary_name`
```

mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_email(name_size=7, surname_size=5, domain=`mydomain.edu`);
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-------------------------------------+
    | gen_rnd_email(4, 5, `mydomain.edu`) |
    +-------------------------------------+
    | qwer.asdfg@mydomain.edu             |
    +-------------------------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_iban([country, size])

Generates an Internal Bank Account Number (IBAN).

!!! important

    Generating the IBAN with a valid country code should only be used for testing. The function does not check if the generated value is a legitimate bank account. If you must publish the result, consider using [`mask_iban`](#mask_ibanstr-mask_char) to mix up the result.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| country | Yes | A two-character country code | String |
| size | Yes | Number of characters | Integer |

If the `country` is not specified, the default is `ZZ`. The value must be two upper-case characters (A-Z) or an error is returned.

The default length for `size` is 16. The minimum value is 15. The maximum value is 34.

### Returns

> The function returns a string based on the `size` value. The string begins with the `country` (two characters) and contains a regular expression in a <country>[[:digit:]]{size} format. The character set is the same as the `country` parameter or if that parameter is not specified, the character set is `utf8mb4`.

Reviewer 2: Also, we need to mention that
`IBAN` ckecksum is not calculated, so the generated value may not pass the validation.

# Data masking component functions

The feature is in [tech preview](glossary.md#tech-preview).

| **Name**                                          | **Usage**                                             |
|---------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| [`gen_blocklist(str, from_dictionary_name, to_dictionary_name)`](#gen_blockliststr-from_dictionary_name-to_dictionary_name) | Replace a term from a dictionary                      |
| [`gen_dictionary(dictionary_name)`](#gen_dictionarydictionary_name) | Returns a random term from a dictionary               |
| [`gen_range(lower, upper)`](#gen_rangelower-upper) | Returns a number from a range                       |
| [`gen_rnd_canada_sin()`](#gen-rnd-canada-sin) | Generates a Canadian Social Insurance number          |

> | [`gen_rnd_email(name_size, surname_size, domain)`](#gen_rnd_emailname_size-surname_size-domain)    | Generates an email address                            |

Reviewer 2: Add square brackets to indicate that those arguments are also optional
gen_rnd_email([name_size, surname_size, domain])

| [`mask_pan(str [,mask_char])`](#mask_panstr-mask_char)     | Masks the Primary Account number for a payment card   |
| [`mask_pan_relaxed(str [,mask_char])`](#mask_pan_relaxedstr-mask_char)   | Partially masks the Primary Account number for a payment card   |
| [`mask_ssn(str [,mask_char])`](#mask_ssnstr-mask_char)    | Masks the US Social Security number                   |
| [`mask_uk_nin(str [,mask_char])`](#mask_uk_ninstr-mask_char)     | Masks the United Kingdom National Insurance number    |
| [`mask_uuid(str [,mask_char])`](#mask_uuidstr-mask_char)         | Masks the Universally Unique Identifier               |
| [`masking_dictionary_remove(dictionary_name)`](#masking_dictionary_removedictionary_name)          | Removes the dictionary                                |
| [`masking_dictionary_term_add(dictionary_name, term_name)`](#masking_dictionary_term_adddictionary_name-term_name)     | Adds a term to the masking dictionary                 |
| [`masking_dictionary_term_remove(dictionary_name, term_name)`](#masking_dictionary_term_removedictionary_name-term_name)      | Removes a term from the masking dictionary            |

> 

Reviewer 2: A generic comment (not bound to this particular place in the code).
The following functions when invoked with NULL as a primary (the first)
argument return NULL as the result:
* mask_canada_sin()
* mask_iban()
* mask_inner()
* mask_outer()
* mask_pan()
* mask_pan_relaxed()
* mask_ssn()
* mask_uk_nin()
* mask_uuid()
* gen_blocklist()

Multiple function `Return` sections must be updated.

    | gen_dictionary('trees')                          |
    +--------------------------------------------------+
    | Norway spruce                                    |
    +--------------------------------------------------+
    ```

## gen_range(lower, upper)

Returns a number from a defined range.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| lower | No | The lower boundary of the range | Integer |
| upper | No | The upper boundary of the range | Integer |

The `upper` parameter must be an integer either greater than or equal to the `lower` parameter.

## Returns

An integer, selected at random, from an inclusive range defined by the `lower` parameter and the `upper` parameter, or NULL if the `upper` boundary is less than the `lower` boundary.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_range(10, 100);
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +--------------------------------------+
    | gen_range(10,100)                    |
    +--------------------------------------+
    | 56                                   |
    +--------------------------------------+
    ```

> ## gen-rnd-canada-sin()

Reviewer 2: Underscores in the function name

Generates a Canada Social Insurance Number (SIN).

!!! important

    Generating the SIN should only be used for testing. The function does not check if the generated value is a legitimate primary account number. If you must publish the result, consider using [`mask_canada_sin`](#mask_canada_sinstr-mask_char) to mix up the result.

### Parameters

None.

### Returns

Returns a Canada SIN. The format is `AAA-BBB-CCC` in the `utf8mb4` character set.

The number is verified with the [Luhn Number Checksum]](https://www.dcode.fr/luhn-algorithm) to ensure the number is consistent.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_canada_sin();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-------------------------+
    | gen_rnd_canada_sin()    |
    +-------------------------+
    | 506-948-819             |
    +-------------------------+
    ```

> ## gen_rnd_email(name_size, surname_size, domain)

Reviewer 2: Square braces to indicate optional arguments

Generates a random email address. The format of the email is `name.surname@domain`. 

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

> | name_size | Yes | Specifies the number of characters in the name part. The default is five. | Integer |

Reviewer 2: Min: 1, Max: 1024

> | surname_size | Yes | Specifies the number of characters in the surname part. The default number is seven. | Integer |

Reviewer 2: Min: 1, Max: 1024

| domain | Yes | Specifies the domain part. The default value is `example.com`. | Integer |

### Returns

A generated email address as a string in the same character set as `domain`. If the `domain` value is not specified, then the string is in the `utf8mb4` character set. The `name` and `surname` are random lower-case letters (a - z).

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_email(name_size=7, surname_size=5, domain=`mydomain.edu`);
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-------------------------------------+

>     | gen_rnd_email(4, 5, `mydomain.edu`) |

Reviewer 2: Different queries in `example` and `example output`

    +-------------------------------------+
    | qwer.asdfg@mydomain.edu             |
    +-------------------------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_iban([country, size])

Generates an Internal Bank Account Number (IBAN).

!!! important

    Generating the IBAN with a valid country code should only be used for testing. The function does not check if the generated value is a legitimate bank account. If you must publish the result, consider using [`mask_iban`](#mask_ibanstr-mask_char) to mix up the result.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| country | Yes | A two-character country code | String |
| size | Yes | Number of characters | Integer |

If the `country` is not specified, the default is `ZZ`. The value must be two upper-case characters (A-Z) or an error is returned.

The default length for `size` is 16. The minimum value is 15. The maximum value is 34.

### Returns

> The function returns a string based on the `size` value. The string begins with the `country` (two characters) and contains a regular expression in a <country>[[:digit:]]{size} format. The character set is the same as the `country` parameter or if that parameter is not specified, the character set is `utf8mb4`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The function returns a string of the length of `size`. The string consists of the `country` (two characters) followed by (size -2) random digits. The character set is the same as the `country` parameter or if that parameter is not specified, the character set is `utf8mb4`.
```

The function does not calculate the `IBAN` checksum. The generated value may not pass the validation.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_iban();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-------------------+
    | gen_rnd_iban()    |
    +-------------------+

>     |ZZ7895912007853695 |

Reviewer 2: Wrong example,
by default the result should be of length 16 (including country code)

    +-------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_pan()

> Generates an Primary Account Number (PAN) for a payment card.

Reviewer 2: In particular, American Express / Visa / Mastercard / Discover
credit card number that passes basic checksum validation.

mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_pan();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-------------------+
    | gen_rnd_pan()     |
    +-------------------+
    | 1234567898765432  |
    +-------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_ssn()

Generates a United States Social Security Account Number (SSN).

### Parameters

None

### Returns

A SSN string in a `***-**-****` format in the `utf8mb4` character set. The first three numbers are greater than 900, which are outside the range for legitimate numbers.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_ssn();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +----------------+
    | gen_rnd_ssn()  |
    +----------------+
    | 970-03-0370    |
    -----------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_uk_nin()

Generates a United Kingdom National Insurance Number (NIN).

!!! important

    Generating the NIN should only be used for testing. The function does not check if the generated value is a legitimate primary account number. If you must publish the result, consider using [`mask_uk_nin`](#mask_uk_ninstr-mask_char) to mix up the result.

### Parameters

None.

### Returns

> 

Reviewer 2: Returns a string of length 9, that always starts with 'AA' and ends with 'C'

Returns a UUID as a string in the `utf8mb4` character set.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_uuid();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------+
    | gen_rnd_uuid()                     |
    +------------------------------------+
    |9a3b642c-06c6-11ee-be56-0242ac120002|
    +------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_canada_sin(str [,mask_char])

Masks a Canada Social Insurance Number (SIN).

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` accepts an alphanumeric string.

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is `X`. The `mask_char` value can be a multibyte character in any character set and may not be same character set as `str`.

### Returns

A string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or the default value for that parameter. The function supports multibyte characters in any character set. The character set is the same as `str`.

Returns an error if the length of `str` is not correct.

> Returns a NULL value if the `str` is in an incorrect length. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An error is reported if the `str` is in an incorrect length.
```

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_canada_sin('555-555-555');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +--------------------------------+
    | mask_canada_sin('555-555-555') |
    +--------------------------------+
    | XXX-XXX-XXX                    |
    +--------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_iban(str [,mask_char])

Masks an Internal Bank Account Number (IBAN).

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | Character used for masking | String |

The `str` accepts either of the following:

* No separator symbol
* Groups of four characters. These groups can be separated by a space or any separator character.

The default value for `mask_char` is `*`. The value can be a multibyte character in any character set and may not be same character set as `str`.

### Returns

Returns the masked string. The character set of the result is the same as the character set of `str`.

> Returns an error if `str` length is incorrect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An error is reported if the `str` length is incorrect.
```

If the sum of `margin1` and `margin2` is greater than or equal to the string length, no masking occurs.

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is 'X'. The `mask_char` value can be a multibyte character in any character set and may not be same character set as `str`.

### Returns

A string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value in the character set of the `string` parameter.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_inner('123456789', 1, 2);
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-----------------------------------+
    | mask_inner('123456789', 1, 2)     |
    +-----------------------------------+
    | 1XXXXXX89                          |
    +-----------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_outer(str, margin1, margin2 [,mask_char])

Returns the string where a selected outer portion is masked with a substitute character.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| string | No | The string to be masked | String |

> | margin1 | No | The number of characters on the left end of the string to remain unmasked | Integer |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| margin1 | No | The number of characters on the left end of the string to be masked | Integer |
```

> | margin2 | No | The number of characters on the right end of the string to remain unmasked | Integer |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| margin2 | No | The number of characters on the right end of the string to be masked | Integer |
```

| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

> If the `margin1` cannot be a negative number. If the marin1 value is 0, then all of the left end characters are unmasked.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the `margin1` cannot be a negative number. If the marin1 value is 0, then all of the left end characters are masked.
```

> If the `margin2` cannot be a negative number. If the marin1 value is 0, then all of the right end characters are unmasked.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the `margin2` cannot be a negative number. If the marin1 value is 0, then all of the right end characters are masked.
```

> If the sum of `margin1` and `margin2` is greater than or equal to the string length, the string is masked.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the sum of `margin1` and `margin2` is greater than or equal to the string length, the entire string is masked.
```

### Returns

A string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value in the same character set as `string`.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_outer('123456789', 2, 2); 
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------+
    | mask_outer('123456789', 2, 2).     |
    +------------------------------------+
    | XX34567XX                          |
    +------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_pan(str [,mask_char])

Returns a masked payment card Primary Account Number (PAN). The mask replaces the PAN number with the specified character except for the last four digits.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` contains a minimum of 14 or a maximum of 19 alphanumeric characters. 

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is 'X'. The `mask_char` value can be a multibyte character in any character set and may not be same character set as `str`.

### Returns

> A string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value. 

Reviewer 2: The character set of the result is the same character set as `str`.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_pan (gen_rnd_pan());
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------+
    | mask_pan(gen_rnd_pan())            |
    +------------------------------------+
    | XXXXXXXXXXX2345                    |
    +------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_pan_relaxed(str [,mask_char])

Returns a masked payment card Primary Account Number (PAN). The first six numbers and the last four numbers and the rest of the string masked by specified character or `X`.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` must contain a minimum of 14 or a maximum of 19 alphanumeric characters. 

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is 'X'.

### Returns

A string with the first six numbers and the last four numbers and the rest of the string masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value (`X`). The character set of the result is the same character set as `str`.

> An error occurs if the `str` parameter is not the correct length. The `mask_char` value can be a multibyte character in any character set and may not be same character set as `str`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `mask_char` value can be a multibyte character in any character set and may not be same character set as `str`.
An error occurs if the `str` parameter is not the correct length.
```

```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------------+
    | mask_pan_relaxed(gen_rnd_pan())          |
    +------------------------------------------+
    | 520754XXXXXX4848                         |
    +------------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_ssn(str [,mask_char])

Returns a masked United States Social Security Number(SSN). The mask replaces the SSN number with the specified character except for the last four digits.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` accepts either of the following:

* Nine integers, no separator symbol
* Nine integers in the `***-**-****` pattern. The `-` is a separator character.

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is `*`. The `mask_char` value can be a multibyte character in any character set and may not be same character set as `str`.

### Returns

A string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value in the same character set of `str`. 

> Returns a NULL value if the `str` is in an incorrect length.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An error is reported if the value of the `str` is in an incorrect length.
```

mysql> SELECT mask_ssn('555-55-5555');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-------------------------+
    | mask_ssn('555-55-5555') |
    +-------------------------+
    | ***-**-5555             |
    +-------------------------+
    ```

## mask_uk_nin(str [,mask_char])

Returns a masked a United Kingdom National Insurance Number (NIN). The mask replaces the NIN number with the specified character except for the first two digits.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` accepts an alpha-numeric string and does not check format.

The `str` can use any separator character.

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is `*`. The `mask_char` value can be a multibyte character in any character set and may not be same character set as `str`.

### Returns

Returns a string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value in the same character set as `str`.

An error occurs if the `str` parameter is not the correct length. 

> Returns a NULL value if the `str` is in an incorrect format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Remove this line

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_uk_nin ('CT 26 46 83 D');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------+
    | mask_uk_nin('CT 26 46 83 D')       |
    +------------------------------------+
    | CT ** ** ** *                      |
    +------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_uuid(str [,mask_char])

Masks a Universally Unique Identifier (UUID).

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` format is `********-****-****-****-************`.

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is '*'. The `mask_char` value can be a multibyte character in any character set and may not be same character set as `str`.

### Returns

A string with the characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value in the same character set as `str`.

Returns an error if the length of `str` is incorrect.

> Returns `NULL` if `str`  is an incorrect length.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Remove this line.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_uuid('9a3b642c-06c6-11ee-be56-0242ac120002');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-------------------------------------------------------+
    | mask_uuid('9a3b642c-06c6-11ee-be56-0242ac120002')     |
    +-------------------------------------------------------+
    |********_****_****_****_************                   |
    +-------------------------------------------------------+
    ```

## masking_dictionary_remove(dictionary_name)

Removes all of the terms and the dictionary. 

Requires the `MASKING_DICTIONARIES_ADMIN` privilege.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| dictionary_name | No | The dictionary to be removed | String |

### Returns

> Returns a string value of `1` (one) if the operation is successful or `NULL` if the operation could not find the `dictionary_name`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns a string value of `1` (one) in `utf8mb4` character set if the operation is successful or `NULL` if the operation could not find the `dictionary_name`.
```

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT masking_dictionary_remove('trees');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------------+
    | masking_dictionary_remove('trees')       |
    +------------------------------------------+
    |                                        1 |
    +------------------------------------------+
    ```

## masking_dictionary_term_add(dictionary_name, term_name)

Adds a term to the dictionary and requires the `MASKING_DICTIONARIES_ADMIN` privilege.

### Returns

> Returns a string value of `1` (one) if the operation is successful. If the `dictionary_name` does not exist, the operation creates the dictionary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns a string value of `1` (one) in `utf8mb4` character set if the operation is successful. If the `dictionary_name` does not exist, the operation creates the dictionary.
```

Returns `NULL` if the operation fails. An operation can fail if the `term_name` is already available in the dictionary specified by `dictionary_name`.

The operation uses `INSERT IGNORE` and can have the following outcomes:

> * The term is truncated if the mysql.masking_dictionaries.Dictionary length is greater than maximum length of mysql.masking_dictionaries.Dictionary, or if the mysql.masking_dictionary.Term length is greater than the maximum length of mysql.masking_dictionaries.Term.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The term is truncated if its length is greater than the maximum length of the `Term` field in the `mysql.masking_dictionaries` table
* The dictionary name may also be truncated if its length is greater than the maximum length of the `Dictionary` field in the `mysql.masking_dictionaries` table.
```

> * Character sets are treated as "?" if the characters are not supported by mysql.masking_dictionaries.Dictionary and/or the mysql.masking_dictionaries.Term character sets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Character of the `term` that are not supported by the `Dictionary` field in the `mysql.masking_dictionaries` table will be implicitly converted into '?'
* ```

    | Dictionary | varchar(256) | NO   | PRI | NULL    |       |
    | Term       | varchar(256) | NO   | PRI | NULL    |       |
    +------------+--------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
    2 rows in set (0.02 sec)
    ```

Modify the table with an `ALTER TABLE` statement, if needed.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT masking_dictionary_term_add('trees','pine');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-----------------------------------------------+
    | masking_dictionary_term_add('trees', 'pine')  |
    +-----------------------------------------------+
    |                                             1 |
    +-----------------------------------------------+
    ```

## masking_dictionary_term_remove(dictionary_name, term_name)

Removes the selected term from the dictionary. 

Requires the `MASKING_DICTIONARIES_ADMIN` privilege.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| dictionary_name | No | The dictionary that contains the `term_name` | String |
| term_name | No | The term to be removed | String |

### Returns

> Returns a string value of `1` (one) if the operation is successful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns a string value of `1` (one) in `utf8mb4` character set if the operation is successful.

Returns NULL if you invoke this function with NULL as the primary argument.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_blocklist('apple', 'fruit', 'nut');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-----------------------------------------+
    | gen_blocklist('apple', 'fruit', 'nut')  |
    +-----------------------------------------+
    | walnut                                  |
    +-----------------------------------------+
    ```

## gen_dictionary(dictionary_name)

Returns a term from a dictionary selected at random.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `dictionary_name` | No | Select the random term from this dictionary | String |

### Returns

A random term from the dictionary listed in `dictionary_name` in the `utf8mb4` character set.

> 

Reviewer 2: Returns `NULL` if `dictionary_name` does not exist.

| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `lower` | No | The lower boundary of the range | Integer |
| `upper` | No | The upper boundary of the range | Integer |

The `upper` parameter value must be an integer either greater than or equal to the `lower` parameter value.

### Returns

An integer, selected at random, from an inclusive range defined by the `lower` parameter value and the `upper` parameter value, or NULL if the `upper` boundary is less than the `lower` boundary.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_range(10, 100);
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +--------------------------------------+
    | gen_range(10,100)                    |
    +--------------------------------------+
    | 56                                   |
    +--------------------------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_canada_sin()

Generates a Canada Social Insurance Number (SIN).

!!! important

Only use this function for testing because the result could be a legitimate SIN. Use [`mask_canada_sin`](#mask_canada_sinstr-mask_char) to disguise the result if you must publish the result.

### Parameters

None.

### Returns

> Returns a Canada SIN formatted in three groups of three digits (for example, 123-456-789) in the `utf8mb4` character set. To ensure the number is consistent, the number is verified with the [Luhn algorithm]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luhn_algorithm).

Reviewer 2: The `Luhn algorithm` link here is not rendered as a link

    +-------------------------------------+
    | qwer.asdfg@mydomain.edu             |
    +-------------------------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_iban([country, size])

Generates an Internal Bank Account Number (IBAN).

!!! important

Generating an IBAN with a valid country code should only be used for testing. The function does not check if the generated value is a legitimate bank account. If you must publish the result, consider using [`mask_iban`](#mask_ibanstr-mask_char) to disguise the result. The function does not perform a checksum on the bank account number.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `country` | Yes | A two-character country code | String |
| `size` | Yes | Number of characters | Integer |

If the `country` is not specified, the default value is `ZZ`. The value must be two upper-case characters (A-Z) or an error is returned.

The default value for `size` is 16. The minimum value is 15. The maximum value is 34.

### Returns

The function returns a string that is the length of the `size` value. The string consists of `country` (two characters) followed by the (size - 2) random digits.

> The `country` value contains a regular expression in a <country>[[:digit:]]{size} format. The character set is the same as the `country` parameter or if that parameter is not specified, the character set is `utf8mb4`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The character set is the same as the `country` parameter or if that parameter is not specified, the character set is `utf8mb4`.
```

Returns a NULL if you invoke this function with NULL as the primary argument.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_canada_sin('555-555-555');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +--------------------------------+
    | mask_canada_sin('555-555-555') |
    +--------------------------------+
    | XXX-XXX-XXX                    |
    +--------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_iban(str [,mask_char])

Masks an Internal Bank Account Number (IBAN).

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `str` | No | The string to be masked | String |
| `mask_char` | Yes | Character used for masking | String |

The `str` accepts either of the following:

* No separator symbol

* Groups of four characters. These groups can be separated by a space or any separator character.

The default value for `mask_char` is `*`. The value can be a multibyte character in any character set and may not be same character set as `str`.

### Returns

Returns the masked string. The character set of the result is the same as the character set of `str`.

An error is reported if the `str` length is incorrect.

> If the `str` contains a multi-byte character, the `str` is not masked.

Reviewer 2: Remove this line completely.

Returns NULL if you invoke this function with NULL as the primary argument.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_iban('DE27 1002 02003 77495 4156');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +---------------------------------------------+
    | mask_iban('DE27 1002 02003 77495 4156')     |
    +---------------------------------------------+
    | DE** **** **** **** ****                    |
    +---------------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_inner(str, margin1, margin2 [,mask_char])

Returns the string where a selected inner portion is masked with a substitute character.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `string` | No | The string to be masked | String |
| `margin1` | No | The number of characters on the left end of the string to remain unmasked | Integer |
| `margin2` | No | The number of characters on the right end of the string to remain unmasked | Integer |
| `mask_char` | Yes | The masking character | String |

> The `margin1` value cannot be a negative number. If the value is `0`, then all of the left end characters are unmasked.

Reviewer 2: Looks like the correct statement would be `are masked`.
Moreover, I personally find this `If the value is 0` too hard to process. it's better be reworded

Reviewer 2: May be something like
then the the masking range starts from the very first character on the left / the masking range ends at the very last character on the right

> The `margin2` value cannot be a negative number. If the value is `0`, then all of the right end characters are unmasked.

Reviewer 2: Likewise

### Returns

A string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value in the character set of the `string` parameter.

Returns NULL if you invoke this function with NULL as the primary argument.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_inner('123456789', 1, 2);
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-----------------------------------+
    | mask_inner('123456789', 1, 2)     |
    +-----------------------------------+
    | 1XXXXXX89                          |
    +-----------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_outer(str, margin1, margin2 [,mask_char])

Returns the string where a selected outer portion is masked with a substitute character.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `string` | No | The string to be masked | String |
| `margin1` | No | On the left end of the string, mask this designated number of characters | Integer |
| `margin2` | No | On the right end of the string, mask this designated number of characters | Integer |
| `mask_char` | Yes | The masking character | String |

> The `margin1` cannot be a negative number. If the value is `0`, all characters on the left end are masked.

Reviewer 2: Likewise

> The `margin2` cannot be a negative number. If the value is `0`, all characters on the right end are masked.

Reviewer 2: Likewise

### Returns

Returns a string value of `1` (one) in the `utf8mb4` character set if the operation is successful or `NULL` if the operation could not find the `dictionary_name`.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT masking_dictionary_remove('trees');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------------+
    | masking_dictionary_remove('trees')       |
    +------------------------------------------+
    |                                        1 |
    +------------------------------------------+
    ```

## masking_dictionary_term_add(dictionary_name, term_name)

Adds a term to the dictionary and requires the `MASKING_DICTIONARIES_ADMIN` privilege.

### Returns

Returns a string value of `1` (one) in the `utf8mb4` character set if the operation is successful. If the `dictionary_name` does not exist, the operation creates the dictionary.

Returns `NULL` if the operation fails. An operation can fail if the `term_name` is already available in the dictionary specified by `dictionary_name`.

The operation uses `INSERT IGNORE` and can have the following outcomes:

> * The term is truncated if the `mysql.masking_dictionaries.Dictionary` length is greater than maximum length of `mysql.masking_dictionaries.Dictionary`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `dictionary_name` is truncated if its length is greater than maximum length of the `Dictionary` field in the  `mysql.masking_dictionaries` table.
```

> * The term is truncated if the `mysql.masking_dictionary.Term` length is greater than the maximum length of `mysql.masking_dictionaries.Term`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `term_name` is truncated if its length is greater than the maximum length of the `Term` field in the  `mysql.masking_dictionaries` table.
```

Author: We don't use "its"

> * If the character of the `term` is not supported by the `Dictionary` field in the `mysql.masking_dictionaries` table, the character is implicitly converted to '?'.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If the character of the `term_name` is not supported by the `Term` field in the `mysql.masking_dictionaries` table, the character is implicitly converted to '?'.
* If the character of the `dictionary_name` is not supported by the `Dictionary` field in the `mysql.masking_dictionaries` table, the character is implicitly converted to '?'.```

| [`mask_uuid(str [,mask_char])`](#mask_uuidstr-mask_char)         | Masks the Universally Unique Identifier               |
| [`masking_dictionary_remove(dictionary_name)`](#masking_dictionary_removedictionary_name)          | Removes the dictionary                                |
| [`masking_dictionary_term_add(dictionary_name, term_name)`](#masking_dictionary_term_adddictionary_name-term_name)     | Adds a term to the masking dictionary                 |
| [`masking_dictionary_term_remove(dictionary_name, term_name)`](#masking_dictionary_term_removedictionary_name-term_name)      | Removes a term from the masking dictionary            |

## gen_blocklist(str, from_dictionary_name, to_dictionary_name)

Replaces one term in a dictionary with a term, selected at random, in another dictionary.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| term | No | The term to replace | String |
| from_dictionary_name | No | The dictionary that stores the term. | String |
| to_dictionary_name | No | The dictionary that stores the replacement term | String |

### Returns

> A term, selected at random, from the dictionary listed in `to_dictionary_name` that replaces the selected term. If the selected `term` is not listed in the `from_dictionary_name` or a dictionary is missing, then the `term` is returned.

Reviewer: + If to_dictionary_name does not exist - NULL is returned.

    +-----------------------------------------+
    ```

## gen_dictionary(dictionary_name)

Returns a term from a dictionary selected at random.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| dictionary_name | No | Select the random term from this dictionary | String |

### Returns

A random term from the dictionary listed in `dictionary_name`.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_dictionary('trees');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +--------------------------------------------------+
    | gen_dictionary('trees')                          |
    +--------------------------------------------------+
    | Norway spruce                                    |
    +--------------------------------------------------+
    ```

## gen_range(lower, upper)

Returns a number from a defined range.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| lower | No | The lower boundary of the range | Integer |
| upper | No | The upper boundary of the range | Integer |

The `upper` parameter must be an integer higher than the `lower` parameter.

## Returns

> An integer, selected at random, from a range defined by the `lower` parameter and the `upper` parameter.

Reviewer: Can we add that it is 'inclusive' ?

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_range(10, 100);
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +--------------------------------------+
    | gen_range(10,100)                    |
    +--------------------------------------+
    | 56                                   |
    +--------------------------------------+
    ```

## gen-rnd-canada-sin()

Generates a Canada Social Insurance Number (SIN).

!!! important

    Generating the SIN should only be used for testing. The function does not check if the generated value is a legitimate primary account number. If you must publish the result, consider using [`mask_canada_sin`](#mask_canada_sinstr-mask_char) to mix up the result.

### Parameters

None.

### Returns

> Returns a Canada SIN. The format is `AAA_BBB_CCC`. 

Reviewer: The format is with dashes: `AAA-BBB-CCC`
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_canada_sin();
+----------------------+
| gen_rnd_canada_sin() |
+----------------------+
| 719-509-838          |
+----------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

The number is verified with the [Luhn Number Checksum]](https://www.dcode.fr/luhn-algorithm) to ensure the number is consistent.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_canada_sin();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-------------------------+
    | gen_rnd_canada_sin()    |
    +-------------------------+
    | 506 948 819             |
    +-------------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_email(name_size, surname_size, domain)

Generates a random email address. The format of the email is `name.surname@domain`. 

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| name_size | Yes | Specifies the number of characters in the name part. The default is five. | Integer |
| surname_size | Yes | Specifies the number of characters in the surname part. The default number is seven. | Integer |
| domain | Yes | Specifies the domain part. The default value is `example.com`. | Integer |

### Returns

An email address as a string.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}

> mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_email(name_size=7, surname_size=5, domain=`mydomain.edu`);

Reviewer: We do not support named params now/yet. The example would be:
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_email(4, 5, 'mynet.com');
+----------------------------------+
| gen_rnd_email(4, 5, 'mynet.com') |
+----------------------------------+
| T15X.TX8x1@mynet.com             |
+----------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +--------------------------------------------+
    | gen_rnd_email(name_size=7, surname_size=5, domain=`mydomain.edu`)                       |
    +--------------------------------------------+
    | michael.jones@mydomain.edu                 |
    +--------------------------------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_iban([country, size])

> Generates an Internal Bank Account Number (IBAN). The function returns the number in the `AAAA BBBB CCCC DDDD` format. 

Reviewer: Our return format is without spaces, starts with Country Code and +16 digits: `CCAAAABBBBCCCCDDDD`:
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_iban();
+--------------------+
| gen_rnd_iban()     |
+--------------------+
| ZZ5570400013550701 |
+--------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> select gen_rnd_iban(); 
+--------------------+
| gen_rnd_iban()     |
+--------------------+
| ZZ7895912007853695 |
+--------------------+
1 row in set (0.01 sec)

!!! important

    Generating the IBAN with a valid country code should only be used for testing. The function does not check if the generated value is a legitimate bank account. If you must publish the result, consider using [`mask_iban`](#mask_ibanstr-mask_char) to mix up the result.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| country | Yes | A two-character country code | String |
| size | Yes | Number of characters | Integer |

If the `country` is not specified, the default is `zz`.

The default length for `size` is 16. The minimum value is 15. The maximum value is 34.

### Returns

> An IBAN string, with the number in an `AAAA BBBB CCCC DDDD` format.

Reviewer: The same re format `AAAABBBBCCCCDDDD`

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_iban();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}

>     +-------------------------------+

Reviewer: mysql> select gen_rnd_iban();
+--------------------+
| gen_rnd_iban() |
+--------------------+
| ZZ7895912007853695 |
+--------------------+
1 row in set (0.01 sec)

    | gen_rnd_iban()                |
    +-------------------------------+
    |ZZ15 5002 0200 1571 7337 59    |
    +-------------------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_pan()

Generates an Primary Account Number (PAN) for a payment card.

!!! important

    Generating the PAN should only be used for testing. The function does not check if the generated value is a legitimate primary account number. If you must publish the result, consider using [`mask_pan`](#mask_panstr-mask_char) or [`mask_pan_relaxed()`](#mask_pan_relaxedstr-mask_char) to mix up the result.

### Parameters

> | Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |

Reviewer: In our implementation it does not accept any params:
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_pan();
+------------------+
| gen_rnd_pan()    |
+------------------+
| 4912367952523209 |
+------------------+
1 row in set (0.01 sec)

mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_pan(13);
ERROR 1123 (HY000): Can't initialize function 'gen_rnd_pan'; Wrong argument list: should be empty

### Parameters

None

### Returns

Returns a United States phone number.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_us_phone();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +--------------------+
    | gen_rnd_us_phone() |
    +--------------------+
    | 1-555-249-2029     |
    +--------------------+
    ```

## gen_rnd_uuid()

Generates a Universally Unique Identifier (UUID).

### Parameters

None.

### Returns

Returns a UUID as a string.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT gen_rnd_uuid();
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------+
    | gen_rnd_uuid()                     |
    +------------------------------------+
    |9a3b642c-06c6-11ee-be56-0242ac120002|
    +------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_canada_sin(str [,mask_char])

Masks a Canada Social Insurance Number (SIN).

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` accepts either of the following:

> * Nine integers

Reviewer: Technically, it accepts alphanumeric characters, but we may want to leave integers here...

* Nine integers in the `***-***-****` pattern. In the example, the `-` is a separator character but you can use any separator character.

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is `X`.

### Returns

A string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that option's default value.

Returns an error if the length of `str` is not correct.

> Returns a NULL value if the `str` is in an incorrect format or contains a multi-byte character.

Reviewer: We leave multibyte untouched and do not return the error. The same applies to all the special purpose masking UDFs. Only  `mask_inner`  `mask_outer` mask multibyte in str.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_canada_sin('555-555-555');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +--------------------------------+
    | mask_canada_sin('555-555-555') |
    +--------------------------------+
    | XXX-XXX-XXX                    |
    +--------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_iban(str [,mask_char])

Masks an Internal Bank Account Number (IBAN).

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | Character used for masking | String |

The `str` accepts either of the following:

* No separator symbol
* Groups of four characters. These groups can be separated by a space or any separator character.

A `str` 
The default value for `mask_char` is `*`.

### Returns

Returns the masked string.

Returns an error if `str` has one of the following issues:

> * Length is wrong

Reviewer: We do not perform format checks for any of the mask UDFs, we check only str length including separators.

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is 'X'.

### Returns

A string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_outer('123456789', 2, 2); 
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------+
    | mask_outer('123456789', 2, 2).     |
    +------------------------------------+
    | XX34567XX                          |
    +------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_pan(str [,mask_char])

Returns a masked payment card Primary Account Number (PAN). The mask replaces the PAN number with the specified character except for the last four digits.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` contains a minimum of 14 or a maximum of 19 alphanumeric characters. 

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is 'X'.

### Returns

A string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value. 

> An error occurs if the `str` parameter is not the correct length. Returns a NULL value if the `str` is in an incorrect format or contains a multi-byte character.

Reviewer: The same as earlier - we do not return errors for multibyte.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_pan (gen_rnd_pan());
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------+
    | mask_pan(gen_rnd_pan())            |
    +------------------------------------+
    | XXXXXXXXXXX2345                    |
    +------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_pan_relaxed(str [,mask_char])

Returns a masked payment card Primary Account Number (PAN). The first six numbers and the last four numbers and the rest of the string masked by specified character or `X`.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` must contain a minimum of 14 or a maximum of 19 alphanumeric characters. 

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is 'X'.

### Returns

A string with the first six numbers and the last four numbers and the rest of the string masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value (`X`). 

> An error occurs if the `str` parameter is not the correct length. Returns a NULL value if the `str` is in an incorrect format or contains a multi-byte character.

Reviewer: We check only length. For multi-byte we simply do not mask them.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_pan_relaxed(gen_rnd_pan());
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------------+
    | mask_pan_relaxed(gen_rnd_pan())          |
    +------------------------------------------+
    | 520754XXXXXX4848                         |
    +------------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_ssn(str [,mask_char])

Returns a masked United States Social Security Number(SSN). The mask replaces the SSN number with the specified character except for the last four digits.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` accepts either of the following:

> * Nine integers, no separator symbol

Reviewer: We accept alphanumeric str.

* Nine integers in the `***-**-****` pattern. The `-` is a separator character.

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is `*`.

### Returns

> A string with the selected characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value. Returns a NULL value if the `str` is in an incorrect format or contains a multi-byte character.

Reviewer: We check only length. For multi-byte we simply do not mask them.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_ssn('555-55-5555');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +-------------------------+
    | mask_ssn('555-55-5555') |
    +-------------------------+
    | ***-**-5555             |
    +-------------------------+
    ```

## mask_uk_nin(str [,mask_char])

Returns a masked a United Kingdom National Insurance Number (NIN). The mask replaces the NIN number with the specified character except for the first two digits.

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

> The `str` accepts either of the following:

Reviewer: The same a above, we accept alphanum string and do not check format.

An error occurs if the `str` parameter is not the correct length. 

Returns a NULL value if the `str` is in an incorrect format or contains a multi-byte character.

### Example

```{.bash data-prompt="mysql>"}
mysql> SELECT mask_uk_nin ('CT 26 46 83 D');
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ```{.text .no-copy}
    +------------------------------------+
    | mask_uk_nin('CT 26 46 83 D')       |
    +------------------------------------+
    | CT ** ** ** *                      |
    +------------------------------------+
    ```

## mask_uuid(str [,mask_char])

Masks a Universally Unique Identifier (UUID).

### Parameters

| Parameter | Optional | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| str | No | The string to be masked | String |
| mask_char | Yes | The masking character | String |

The `str` format is `********-****-****-****-************`.

If the `mask_char` is not specified, the default is '*'.

### Returns

A string with the characters masked by a specified `mask_char` or that parameter's default value.

Returns an error if the length of `str` is incorrect.

Returns `NULL` if `str` has the following issues:

> * Incorrect format

Reviewer: The same as above,
